nc: This is the Netcat utility, which is often referred to as the "Swiss Army knife" of networking tools. It is used to read from and write to network connections using TCP or UDP.
-z: This tells Netcat to perform a port scan without sending any data. It just checks if the port is open and able to accept connections. It's often called a "zero I/O mode" because no actual data is sent.
-v: This flag stands for verbose mode, which means Netcat will provide more detailed output about what it's doing, such as whether the connection succeeds or fails.
52.183.47.158: This is the IP address of your Azure VM that you're trying to connect to.
55555: This is the port you're testing. In this case, you're checking if your Azure VM is listening on port 55555 and whether your AWS VM can establish a connection to that port.
What This Command Does:
Connection Test: It checks if port 55555 on the Azure VM (52.183.47.158) is open and accepting connections.
Results:
If successful, it will display something like:
bash
Copy code
Ncat: Connected to 52.183.47.158:55555.
This means the port is open and accessible from the AWS VM.
If the port is closed or blocked, you would see something like:
bash
Copy code
Ncat: Connection refused.
Why You Use This Command:
This command is useful for troubleshooting connectivity issues between machines, especially when setting up services that require specific ports to be open. In your case, it helped confirm that the two VMs can communicate over port 55555, which is crucial for your application.

About the Firewall:
You mentioned you don’t think you disabled the firewall. That’s okay. The command still worked, meaning:

The firewall on your Azure VM (with UFW) is allowing traffic on port 55555.
If you didn’t disable any firewalls on the AWS VM, it may not have been actively blocking the connection on port 55555.
In summary, the command verified that network connectivity between your AWS and Azure VMs is working on port 55555, and your firewall rules are set up properly for this port.

Would you like assistance in rechecking your firewall settings or running your Python code now that the connection is established?
